Interviewer: Could you just give me a brief overview of you, the system you use, it's advantages it's disadvantages and the application area as well. And what sort of tasks you would do with that?
Participant: Ok so you aware of what we do here at [organisation] at the moment. Have you spoke to someone else, has my colleague filled you in with- We are trying to use newer technologies. So newer motors, newest or feedback newer tendons increases capability of what it can do. So it's very similar. We have, we've got a couple of [arms] out on studies at the moment. So one is in a medical environment, okay, so it's being used for rehabilitation. So what it is rather than having a grip of feature it's got like a blank pad so you can velcro it to someone's hand or someone's arm and obviously it helps them do motions without having possibly a physio right, okay. So in effect you could have ten of these in a row. Ten people attached to but one physio overseeing the lot, you know.
Interviewer: So it's still teleoperated, it's still kind of that there's a human in the loop but it is it's not pre-programmed rehab movements?
Participant: This is it again this is where I think they're trying to go is that you could have predefined movements and it's just helping that person get muscle memory back. Yeah, so it's possible operating. It is literally a movement like this. Personally, I'm not sure how that works - having done physio myself. You can't have to keep pushing yourself and how would [the arm], know that you've hit your limit of pain or discomfort. So it's one of it's interesting concepts this obviously you know, somewhere for it to go, but how, how it's going on? We're sending a team out there in at the end of this month actually to see how they're getting on with that project.
Interviewer: Yeah, brilliant and then kind of get different almost look at it through different lenses from a couple of different people because yeah I mean it's sounds like [your systems] are used in loads of different applications. There's no longer just nuclear.
Participant: Yes, again is potentially different applications. We have got a [robot arm], which has been sent to help to clean up a nuclear reactor. So we've got, we've got a system over there but that is it's not a local and remote arm. We just have a-  it is local remote, but one of them is in a cell and it's used for maintenance tasks, on something that would have been into a hazardous environment and it comes back into a cell environment and our arm is used for to change cables, change attachments on the end of a boom system. So it's still used in radiation.
Interviewer: So what sort of what sort of tasks would these be, are these known tasks - where you know the configuration of things coming in - or is it you just have to adapt to anything for this one.
Participant: This one that's out there now is a known task because the boom isn't retrieving anything, it's just going in, investigating and coming back. So there is a cable, loom on the top, which is however many metres long, 30 metres long, it weighs X amount, but it kind of pulls the cable from a reeler and it attaches it into blocks and the you screw it down remotely, the boom can then drive off, you put the cable on again. Yeah, and attach that remotely again, and also there's an attachement that goes on the end of the boom system. So the arm actually retrieves it from a drawer, right? Beneath itself, the drawer comes out, you attach a hoist, you lift it up. They drive the boom in. You put the attachment onto the boom system and then it's locked on. So it's sounds very simple task, but it's in a very, very tight space, which is where training and camera view and all that stuff comes into into play.
Interviewer: Yeah. So do you have a? I remember the [similar arm] kind of camera setup. Is it similar sort of thing?
Participant: It's exactly the same
Interviewer: Okay, so what is the, what the main differences or improvements vs oher systems
Participant: Yeah, so I mean, to do a comparison, it's it's, it's literally just newer technology. So it, it, it would look the same to someone that's walking down the street. If you put them side by side one might have a different cover, arm, different, colour arm covers. Yeah, basically the box is the two arm system. The grippers are the same. Like I say this technology has bridged two companies so it is super similar even where you mount the hoist, having the wrist cameras. They're slightly more robust. Probably got better definition but it's still a wrist camera on a flexi post so you can move it to view something. So it super similar. Yeah just slightly more modern and also if something breaks, they now supply that on the shelf whereas [the previous arm] is so old. If that breaks, they haven't got any more, they stop making 10 years ago, so, it's again, it's just using more current up to date equipment.
Interviewer: Yeah. Okay. It's essentially just same thing, same thing and kind of say maybe slightly more sensitive or bit more fidelity? Or just even even more just just durable.
Participant: Yeah that's it <more durable>. And I think they're trying to you know upgrading again and then we should have a baseline system and then if a project needs to have longer arms on it or it needs to lift more or it needs to be waterproof. or something like that. That's when you need to start looking to variants of what [this system] is, but essentially it's the baseline thing and then it would be adapted to see wherever customer, right.
Interviewer: Yeah. That makes sense. So, part of this study is to look at how people trust the machines they use. And we're taking a definition of "if the machine performs as the user intends", then then it's trustworthy. If it does something the user doesn't intend then it's not. So I guess, when you're using the systems that you've used, do you feel you trust your machines? Is there something that lets you feel confident that the machine is going to behave as you expect or does it sometimes behave as you don't expect?
Participant: I've always got confidence in the in the equipment that we've got. The only time it, it would what we would call it like trips out. As if you do a movement that it's not really programmed to understand like if you want it to move really fast, the internals can't keep up with the instruction you've given it and it will just go into a safe mode. So that's more the, it's knowing the line of what's too fast and what isn't too fast. So that's more down to training rather than you know, malfunctioning of the kit. So right. I trust the kit. It's it doesn't let me down you know. It doesn't, it doesn't do any movements that it's not supposed to do, it's never done. Not anything wild, it's not done something like that so it's more down to training to understand what it can and can't do. This this full trust in the kit and it's not gonna cause any damage to you or the equipment that you are handling.
Interviewer: So, it's experience and yeah, knowing the limits of it and what's possible? Not exactly like if you had a colleague and you knew what they were able to do then, you know, you wouldn't you wouldn't push them beyond their capabilities. This is same with the robot I guess.
Participant: Yeah, exactly that. There are hard, there are soft stops in the software and there's hard stops within the kit itself. So you could potentially hit a hard stop and then try to keep going. I mean not that you would but somebody might if you're almost where you need to be you might want to try and strain and stretch and that's where you could put pressure on the tendons. I mean the bear in mind a tendon is basically like a brake wire for a pushbike. It's got two balls on the end. If you try to push it too far could just pull it off, right? So it's just understanding what it can and can't do. But the kit, the kit itself is very, very reliable.
Interviewer: Are there any features that are included to let the user know when you when you're reaching these limits or when you're approaching a soft stop kind of thing.
Participant: Yeah, the MMI screens that you have. So you've got two views and then you've got your two screens at the bottom. It shows you where you are in the range on each and every joint. So and I believe it again its been updated and modified all the time. So whether it's, I'm not sure our current system because at the minute, the one we've got operated is a one arm system. We're developing two arm systems the same as the previous arm. I'm not sure. When you get close to the limits, it's changes colours, right? It's like a visual impact.
Interviewer: And do you use, sound alarms, maybe a vibration or something like that?
Participant: Yeah, it's just a visual thing and again, without looking at the system, whether it's got a lot of temperature because sometimes the motors if you if you are on your limits or you lifting something heavy for too long, if something's not going quite right. The motors might start to overheat, right? I think that will change thing that might change the display as well. So right, but it's all visual. There's no, there's no noises and no vibrations.
Interviewer: Okay. And do you think that that's an advantage or would you as an operator be interested in more kind of streams of information, I guess?
Participant: I think for myself again? Just to go back on my history - I worked at [my previous company] since the 2003 for several years and then left that business and went around a few others. Come to [my current company] who are very new if you like. So we don't sit and use our system the same as [the previous company] we are still in development stages. Even the ones we're building for [my previous company] we're building them a system. So we're not, we don't use eight hours a day but go remembering back. I would want minimum, kind of, information. I wouldn't want an alarm going off if near a limit, because that's what the rest of the teams for, you know, you've got someone in charge, someone deputy in charge, all I would want to focus on is what I'm doing. I don't want an alarm or flashing or I'd be happy with the colour change and then these guys, keeping an eye on what's going on. So, me personally, and again, everyone is different. I'd want information but not overload information.
Interviewer: Yeah that's interesting. And it's interesting kind of spreading it around a team as well. And what size team would you have? If you're doing a standard operation.
Participant: It was a team of five, right? We had the just got [the arm operator]. You have the boom operator. Mm-hmm. And you had a camera operator, and then he had someone in charge of the shift and then a deputy of you was reading out the steps. So again,  that was for [my previous company]. Again, you've got your [arm] operator, you've got someone that understands the task. You would have a camera operator. There is no, there is no boom in [my previous company]. So I think the team might be four right? I would definitely want to have more eyes on the system and how it's working rather than what I'm doing. So yeah, that's just giving out the responsibilities to each of the team members.
Interviewer: Yeah. I think that's that does make sense in this. It's kind of a not overloading anyone with any one job, is it? So that you make sure you don't hit these these limits or these these areas.
Participant: That's right.
Interviewer: Have you noticed any any kind of latency or delay when you're operating any of your systems
Participant: Very very minimal right? It is something they fine tune out as you're commissioning the system, but it's it's super minimal. It's hardly noticeable to be honest with you
Interviewer: Okay, cool. Because yeah, that's going to be the next stage, because in space applications there such a long way away so you can't avoid the delay. So, yeah. Trying to find someone who operates with delay in the real world is really really hard, but they've got to be somewhere.
Participant: Yeah there's got to be somebody somewhere. For my experience it's super minimal.
Interviewer: Not noticeable? Doesn't affect how you operate it?
Participant: Yeah, be really difficult for with that wouldn't it. You know dexterous tasks as well it would be really difficult.
Interviewer: So do you have any the kind of decisions or actions that you have to take or any of them time sensitive or can you kind of gradually, basically do it at your own pace?
Participant: With the tasks that we've done, you do at your own pace. Because if you put pressure on people you end up making mistakes and you end up damaging something. So the last thing you need is is to put that sort of pressure on someone. And if that's the case, if there should be a timeframe on it, I think you should have to a time plus 50% on anyway. Right? Because you would, you couldn't say to someone you need to get that done in one minute because things happen and again, different levels of skill, it could take me one minute. It could take my colleague 30 seconds so you would need to have a time frame that would cover all abilities. To get it done in that time, but currently, it's just, you do at your own speed.
Interviewer: Yeah. That makes sense. And you, you don't have to kind of react to anything in, in your scene, in your environment? Does anything move that's not supposed to move, for example, or anything like that.
Participant: The, the only thing that you made react to is, is because what tends to be the worst thing is, like cable management because cable seems to have a life of its own. Which is, which has been lots of our trials at work actually is working out which way the cable would bend or might bend or bends 80% of the time. Which is why we end up putting stops or guides, to make sure that the cable stays within where you've got to stay because, what you don't want to do is for it - you do a movement and the cable bends because that's where you, you kind of, like, you need to retrieve it. So, that's the only type of thing. You really react to is something you can't control, which is like, say cable management, but everything else is in a nice and controlled way. And this is what you do your studies for before you do the task, you think of everything that could go wrong. Then you mitigate it against 90% of it. Hopefully
Interviewer: So that it essentially becomes a predictable task that's entirely controlled?
Participant: That's it yeah.
Interviewer: You could model the whole scene exactly in simulation?
Participant: Yeah, that's exactly what you need to do <model the whole scene exactly in simulation>. You think of the worst case scenario isn't it. Plan for the worst and hope for the best.
Interviewer: Brilliant. And so in your teleoperated system, can you think of any example, where you would give the machine control with or let the machine take the lead? Is there, is there anything? Where human senses, human actions, they just don't really work and you'd rather the machine was in charge, or is that just an absolute no - you want total control?
Participant: No I wouldn't say it's a no. Again going back and I'm sure my colleague would have said about having teach files. You know, on the boom system they used to have teach files, so they created the an imaginary rail within the within the system. And it, and it would, you could program go to that point, and it would just drive around to that point. You don't actually drive it by joystick or anything. It just does it itself. And also, you could program the arm to, to go up to a certain position. So, basically, the operator was there in case something happens, but you basically just send the command to the arms and actually the arm went up to that position, so it was it was driven there, not by the person.
Interviewer: So this was, I guess, for the big movements between tasks? The computer- a pre-planned path can take over?
Participant: Yeah <for big movements between tasks> and I think anything repeatable you would want to program that in something that, if you've got something like a tool, a tool change position. If you need to get the bolt runner from somewhere, you'd be more than happy for someone to go. You know, hit the home button and it goes to a state whereas that's where that tool is. So before and happy in instances where the kit is in control if you like but not when it comes to actually doing the task more to get you to that task?
Participant: So it gets somewhere close and it goes to the operator, you take over from there. But yeah, but I've no issues with programming it to get you to the point of where you need to take control.
Interviewer: And what is it about those sort of tasks that make you comfortable giving it control there versus, for example, if you're screwing in a nut it's a repeatable task but it's you probably wouldn't give it control by the sounds of it.
Participant: No you wouldn't because to screw in a nut, especially when it's at the start, because you need to find out if you've cross threaded it, you need to make sure you're an alignment and that's a very common failure, actually, is when you're using screws and it and you do cross thread them and you could damage the screw and also the hole that is going into and then that causes a whole world of pain. So you could, if you wanted to make sure you start a screw and then hit a button and make and just make sure it goes in, you know, again, that's sort of thing. You would be happy with that. You wouldn't want it to start that task.
Interviewer: So it's, really these this transitions between the very predictable bits. There's always a section that that the humans better? And you want that feedback to make sure that it's going well, in the risky bit maybe?
Participant: Yeah there's where you want the feel you want the feel to be so subtle, which is why if you've got a smaller screw and you want to set your settings so it's really nice and delicate. You need to be able to feel that it's going incorrectly, like say whereas if you just programmed in it went there and it just powered in yeah you've got no idea whether you've damaged it. Yeah, so yeah. So there are this is where I would accept it.
Interviewer: Okay, interesting. And the final bit. So I've come up with a list of kind of we call them non-functional features things that, that could be included - they don't have to be included to achieve the task to make your system work - but they might help the user kind of have more faith in there in their robot, complete it easier, lower the workload that sort of thing. So I'll just share it if I can, I just want to see if anything jumps out to you as they would be really helpful? Something that's a fad? That's not if there's just not useful in the real world? Or is there anything else on this list that you're like "my systems got this and it's really really useful" or "I don't have this on my system but I think this would be a great idea"?
Participant: Yeah. The first one just looking at the little cartoon versions of, I mean variable viewpoint is, I mean that's super cool, to be able to look around because that's one of the biggest issues is, is your camera views? Because and again, it helps with depth perception, as well. Because I've knew the older I got the worse my depth perception was. And again, how you cause problems is not being an alignment when you're doing a task. So the variable viewpoint is a very that would be very good to have.
Interviewer: Would you prefer that over, or with, multiple camera views? Would you be happy with one variable viewpoint that you can kind of just focus on that
Participant: No I think I think I would want fixed ones as well because if you've got one fixed one, a bit like a goal line camera, that's got one task. And that's where it should always be. So if you, if you had a camera view across where you're going and where you need to be, you've always got that view, whereas if you're moving forward, but your variable viewer is moving around. You might be going too far because your variable view is doing something else so I would still like fixed camera views.
Interviewer: Yeah, kind of have a constant as well as being able to vary it so you don't get lost?
Participant: Yeah and again then some operators are different, and some were more comfortable with working in their, in their peripheral vision, and they knew where they were, whereas I was I always liked to be zoomed out, so I could see the arms. And as I got near to where I was going, the cameras zoomed in with me, but some operators were more comfortable, just focusing on that little task.
Interviewer: Right. So, it's really is, is that just personal preferences? Or is there kind of a way that people are trained or it's the type of tasks. I don't know.
Participant: I think we've trained the same way again. We've all trained the same way. We don't have a system that's operational all the time so we don't have many operators but everyone was pretty much trained the same way, but you just have your own preferences in the end.
Participant: What else do we have on there, how much realism is needed?
Interviewer: So yeah do you want a video stream or could you do it in a simulation? Would you would you be happy with that?
Participant: How accurate can you get a simulation?
Interviewer: That's yeah, that's the question. I guess by the sounds, well from what we've talked about, you could probably for the most part of these tasks that you're involved, other than the cables, maybe it could be predictable enough? But would it be predictable enough to, to get the screw threads?
Participant: I don't think so. I'm not sure if a virtual view is worth the gamble when you took, when you're looking at the cost of the kit you're dealing with. And if it went wrong, how do you retrieve if it went wrong which is always the big question.
Participant: And so we've, you know, we've used VR in the past in it's trying to get that accurate images of what you're looking at. And it's never, I don't think it would be good enough for some of the tasks, if you were grabbing oil, barrels, full of waste from one place to another. It might be fine if you're talking about a block that's 20 mil diameter that needs to go into a square hole 20.5 down. I don't think VR is going to work for you.
Interviewer: Would you be interested in or have you tried sort of augmented mixed reality? An overlay of where we need to focus or are you aligned – anything like that?
Participant: Yeah I think we've again we do we did that <augmented reality overlay of where to focus or align> there was a almost like a template they put, they offered up to it to the screen, you know. It was very rough and ready but it did give you it did give you a good idea of where you needed to be especially on a new task. If you once you've done it several times, you get the idea of what you needed to do. And but yeah there was almost like there's an overlay on the screen but it's it was like a bit of paper: This this is from this view, this is research. This is this is the angle, you need to be at so you did actually use that.
Interviewer: All right, so it's just like a guide again, not too much information for the user?
Participant: Again its just a guide until you get somewhere close and then you rely on your camera views.
Participant: Not sure on that list because we have tried 3D cameras and 3D TV - that had mixed results. So we have got study somewhere at work. I personally, it didn't offer me anything extra, but I think some of the guys who's never used [the arm] before they quite liked it.
Interviewer: Oh right, so maybe maybe there's something about getting used to the system. Kind of a lead-time to learn something?
Participant: Yeah, its like a autocad or cam system, if someone changes it, your mind is like this is not what I'm used to. So I think maybe I'm just set in my ways Yeah, if you're brand new to it you might be open to something that's like, say 3D, so it didn't really work for me, but I know some of the people they quite enjoyed it, right. Whether you could work on it for hours because 3d is a trick of the mind, isn't it really?
Participant: So it's not quite right for me. But yeah, didn't work for me. So yeah. And again looking down the list image resolution. Yeah. If you're moving just hundred gallon barrels from one place to a next, it probably doesn't matter. It's more about the task in hand. And especially if you're connecting like an electrical connector into a into a mating part. I know there's features to help you to align. But also you want you want the clearer clearest picture you can possibly get all times.
Interviewer: And would you take that over frame rate?
Participant: Yes <I would take resolution over frame rate>. Because when you come to do that you're not doing a hundred miles an hour. You do it, nicely slowly.
Interviewer: Yeah, that's true. And I guess you've got the, the force feedback as well, haven't you?
Participant: You can tell <using force feedback> when you're supposed to be moving forward and if you're not you need to stop and have a look to see what you are doing to stop you from doing what you need to be to achieve. So yeah, I would like the resolution.
Interviewer: Yeah, yeah. Okay so the next few were, I mean, number nine, the ghost mode idea is it's more thinking about if you've got delay in the system. You've sent your commands, you see this view of the robot moving, where it thinks it's going to be. Do you think that would be useful or would that just confuse the user?
Participant: It <ghost mode> is useful. And that's what they have [on this system]
Interviewer: Oh right.
Participant: So they got would like, say you've got a boom, you've got a, it's mainly yeah the boom – I'm trying to work out how's modelled. I don't think it's got it on the arms, its been several years they might have updated the software, but definitely on the boom, you hit the button and it shows you where it's going to end up. So you could tell if you put in the wrong command. So it just shows you where the end position. Then obviously when you hit go as long as it follows that track, you're absolutely fine. So and it was very handy, it would give you super confidence in what that system was going to do, right?
Interviewer: It's just that reassurance, isn't it? And would that, just be for the, the kind of pre-planned movement,
Participant: Yeah it would have to be
Interviewer: It's similar to what we talked about with the, the mixed reality - sort of an overlay. So, we've talked about visual overlays, fixtures, cues about the task and what you need to do, would you want anything sort of audio/haptic based? For example, it won't let you move outside of this line that it's decided you want to move on to do the task.
Participant: I think that yes, you would want that <a no go zone> because you, you do work in some tight environments. Where you move to the left? You could damage, say, an electrical connector if you're lifting something big and heavy like an end effector  for the boom. But you've got electrical connector here or an electrical junction box. Yeah, it great to stop you from going to hit that. It takes a bit of pressure off the operator as well. So I think no go zone is a great idea.
Interviewer: Okay. And so haptic feedback would probably be good for that because you can physically stop the user, but just for completeness would any sort of audio feedback be any good, like an alarm going off or a, I don't know, different sounds for different areas
Participant: Yeah and from earlier what I said is for, you know, if you come into the limits and you don't want to be, because that's not really going to damage anything, but if the no go zone, you'd have to have it for specific things where it is a definite no go, you will cause damage. I would like. And I would like a noise to let me know. Obviously the team would also still be looking but yeah if you're drifting to a no go zone an alarm would be good.
Interviewer: Okay. Brilliant. Can you think of anything else not on the list that you've heard of, you'd  like to be included you, you've kind of seen and you think no, let's not use that at all or any other ideas you think might be useful for the user?
Participant: Which is an interesting question because it's one of those things it's it's a think outside the box. Let's think about what you've known for the last 19 years and you kind of think that that's all there is.
Participant: I know this features that we're looking at about recognition of materials. So, to get, okay, the system to understand what is a different material. And that is a brand new, it's a brand new investigation process. We've just started. So it's it's gonna- They're trying to scan, rubber aluminium, painted surfaces and painted surfaces, trying to get it to recognise different things. How that feeds into a [system]? I'm not quite sure how how that transfers over because it is something they've literally just this last two weeks started looking at.
Interviewer: Okay, so that would be just visual scanning identify using some sort of computer vision. And say, this is aluminium. This is some sort of plastic kind of thing there?
Participant: Exactly "this is aluminium", "this is painted surface". I mean that right that I feed into a no-go zone, couldn't it if it realises that you can't go near a certain material, so they would you know, be used, you know, the gripping features for [the system] - the coloured blocks, you know, the gold or red or black is it helps with instruction. If you're doing a task and over, the right hand, pick up the gold. With the left to make sure you're not picking up the wrong way, that's sort of stuff so it was interesting to see what's gonna go. But yeah, a different different features and different colours different textures. Different material recognition. Yeah, could be quite could be quite good again. Depending what environment if it was some kind of sorting manipulator it just needs a production line it needs to pick that type of thing.
Interviewer: If you've got an unknown environment as well, where you can send the robot in it, it just sort of maps out and says, these are these areas. Don't go over here. This is made of that material?
Participant: Yeah yeah potentially. It could be yes.
Interviewer: Yeah. And I guess one other thing -  So the gripper design and the physical gripper points that your system uses - how do you think that effects operation, having something that's so designed for to avoid failure, to make it as easy as possible for the user?
Participant: You could only, you could only drop something with it. If like you've got a grip of feature. But if you try it, if it's too heavy and you tried to lift and turn, it will prize the fingers apart. So you can drop something. Yeah, again, you've got to be doing something wrong, for slightly prolonged period, it'll take you half a minute before you get to the station, you're there, the teams there to make sure we don't do it. But sometimes you can see that the grip is starting to open, right? So you can drop stuff, even with that feature <designed gripping points> because the grippers themselves will because of the leverage of what you're doing
Participant: Yeah again looking at different materials for our tendons compared to the old style even if it's a different coating on the tendon or slightly bigger gauge. Yeah, that sort of thing. But, but it's still got the same, you know, downfall if you like that you can spread the fingers and you just drop something.
Interviewer: Do you think that's helpful for the user or do you think it just, I don't know, it doesn't really affect operation?
Participant: Yeah it <the grip points> does give you a lot of trust cause when you look in you know you've grabbed it. You know those pins are in the fingers, you know, do this [fingers down grasp] and it's not going to fall. You know, you've got the pins and the fingers, there's no issue with that whatsoever, so it does give you lots of trust, the features.
Interviewer: Brilliant. That was already useful stuff. I've run out of questions unless you have anything else?
Participant: No nothing from me.
