Interviewer: Could you give me a brief overview of your your teleoperated system? And what you think the advantages, disadvantages are for your application area
Participant: So it was a a manipulator that went into [a reactor]. And we pretty much basically done all that in vessel repairs, modifications and upgrades to the vessel 'cause, it's it's a long, it's a growing ongoing thing that started off very basic. And then when the obviously the latest technologies come along, we would let's say I take our old technology, you put in new technology, putting new diagnostics and things like that. So uh and I was one of the manipulator. I used to operate the arm, but I also operated their boom as well. I didn't just do. Yeah, I'd. Yeah, a lot of people who don't drive from the boom. I'd rather do the fun bit on the end that they used to call it. But yeah, it was.
Interviewer: And the boom is that the camera system?
Participant: The boom is basically the arm we had. Uh oh, God. How long was it? It must have been at least 20. Probably 12 meters long. Well articulated. Boom. Uh, so add 6 joints, so obviously the the vessel is basically a doughnut shape Yeah. So we it would come in through one port and I'd be enough on it, but it's just a like a manipulate, a crane arm, but we couldn't move around the vessel. It can go just over halfway. And then so if you want to go around the other way, you'd come back and then move around and go around the other side of the vessel as well.
Interviewer: Is this the kind of larger movements to get the arm into place?
Participant: Yeah, yeah. So, so we'd move it around, but also on the boom as well it it did have incorporate the camera system. So we had two cameras, one on the front of the arm looking straight down to give you a nice overview of where your hands and everything were. And we also had a camera arm which would fold up underneath the boom. So that would give you your your basically your, your 3 dimensional views on 2D screens basically. So you'd have one camera looking down. In between your arm so you can get your lefts and rights and forwards and backwards. And then the camera underneath would give you a view from the rear so you can gain your height so you can judge how far away you are from things. So it was it was very good in respect to. You know, if you wanted to actually, you know, move the arm too and touch something, you know, it wasn't sort of you were not like, blind and fiddling around. But, you know, you could, you could move, you could be very confident of where you were in space using those two, just using those two views. Personally, that's what I found a lot of people would. Uh. Would use it very tentatively, I think. Oh, you know, they'll be moving into it really closely, but if you just flick between the two views. You could clearly see you were miles away from anything, so you know, move it a lot closer. So yeah, some people they got on there and they picked up quite well and some people were very yeah. Not not so much. So we say bring it now.
Interviewer: Interesting. Did you notice any other any sort of patterns or trends with who's picking it up? Well, who's maybe struggling a little bit more?
Participant: Well, we went with a lot of the people we tried to get in. Uh, as operators, obviously a slightly younger generation, you know, the Playstations, the Xbox is and and things like that. So we saw, you know, the the younger generation would be really good at this, but we had a look up a bit of a mixed bag. Some of them did pick it up really easy, but also some of the older people, older guys, you know, they're they're qualified engineers, you know the tool makers and stuff like that, they were, they were pretty as well. So they were.
Interviewer: I guess it's kind of a few different ways of approaching it you're essentially operating a video game, or do you have experience of doing the task yourself? Do you know how the tools work, what maintenance feels like?
Participant: Yeah, 'cause, obviously a lot of the stuff that we actually made and we handled we, you know, we made ourselves. So we're not like we had a we had a heads up because Oh well, I know how this tool operates. So I know where its center of gravity is. I know you know how to manipulate it because you know, we made it, we put it together. So I think in that that benefited you know if someone just gave you a tool straight off the bat and said right, OK you need to go and put this in vessel and you need to go and operate it. It would you know it was all about oh hold on a minute. You know, it's an for a start. It never used to happen like that. We had, uh in vessel training facility where we would do all our training. You know, we train over and over and over again on you know the quickest, the fastest, the safest route to get to where we would go in because in vessel. You can imagine there's we had hundreds and thousands, you know, of tiles and these are all one off components you know you couldn't just, you know, pop to Screwfix and get something else. It was, you know these are all bespoke things so. We couldn't damage anything. We couldn't do anything like that, so it had to be correct the first time. So we ran simulations constantly over and over again to get it right. And so when we did go into vessel. Obviously they were obviously there were times where, oh, where in in the vessel that pipes, you know, half a meter that way or it's a little bit lower or is a little bit higher and you know when we go to use the manipulator, there'll be things in their way and things like that. But I would say 99.9% of the time, there was a lot of what we, you know, our repetitiveness that we kept, you know, kept going over and over it did pay off in the long run. Yeah, we had very little when I say not. Accidents. But you know, we knew we, you know, when we went to put this on the wall, it fitted on the wall in the place where it said it was gonna fit.
Interviewer: Yeah. So this idea of gaining confidence through simulations is really interesting. I know from experience that simulations are not always going to be exactly like your environment. How do you get to a point where you're confident that it that will represent your environment accurately enough for you to transition to the real world.
Participant: Yeah, we were quite lucky, really. We had quite a few steps. What we used to use. So with the initial start off would be in VR. We used to use a VR for Robot Simulator. So that was so it was it pretty much an exact replica of what we had in vessel. So we you know, set our computers and we'd run [pre-planned movement] files and our moves to to operate the manipulator. So we do it all in, in this in what they used to call VR, VR for robots. So we'd run it all in simulations in there first. Then we take it to the next step. Uh, and then we say, right. OK, then we we had the luxury of a training facility which was a mock up of the actual reactor itself without, you know, admittedly a lot of the obviously the components in there weren't, you know, they were to scale, but not necessarily, you know, accurate, as in a lot of the stuff was made out of like, bits of foam, you know, this shapeable foam, you can buy, you know, we cut and. Bits of plywood and things like that. But you know in general it would be the general sort of shape. So there we go.
Interviewer: And I guess that's just for for cost reasons? You just go for as quick as you can, and as cheap as you can get it made?
Participant: Yeah, yeah. I would have loved to have had the exact same thing that we had in vessel with there. But you know they they it would mean making another per vessel, which yeah, I don't think was in our budget, yeah. But where we could use but then with then also we would also make, uh, the tooling we used to use. We would just make one. We'd probably make two or three maybe, depending on what tool and that we work had. So obviously one could go off and go into the facility and be used, you know, doing the actual thing that would also have a, uh, another tool that we would just dedicate just for the maintenance facility. So we could just use exactly the same. So whatever we were using in vessel. We were using again, so it wasn't like a. It looks at like a mock up or that we were actually using all our real equipment that we would use again, you know, so we didn't find any discrepancies or anything like that when we went into vessel, you know, they they I don't think it was ever an occasion. Well it you know this tool worked fine in the mock up but it didn't work fine when we went into vessel. But you know it it I don't think we really add that sort of thing 'cause it was you know we we actually using the. The real thing, so to speak, yeah. Yeah. So we were lucky in that respect. We had. We had quite a bit of a. You know, like the tool in and and everything else and the equipment available to us to run these simulations all the time. If we just had the, say, the VR simulations on the computer, I think it'd been, yeah, a lot different sort of story it. I don't need beat being, you know, actually physically doing the actual task itself. Yeah. We'll tell him, yeah.
Interviewer: Is it comparable to what you had [your previous organisation]? Training on a physical mock up
Participant: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Interviewer: And it's the same sort of systems.
Participant: Yeah, they're. They're setting up a a mock up as well at the moment. And we just said, well, one that we are currently updating and using. So this one here will be a similar sort of thing.
Interviewer: Right.
Participant: You know it's it's a mock up of the reactor. So therefore you know it's a similar situation. You know we can't go in blind. You know we have to keep practicing and practicing to make sure this is the this bit works. Make sure when it hooks on their it hooks on and the brackets and everything nothing clashes or anything else so. Uh, yeah. Mockups. Uh, yeah. Pretty essential, I would say.
Interviewer: Do you know how they build the mockups? How do you manage the configuration of it and make sure it's a good match?
Participant: Yeah, we we basically using the CAD, uh, a lot of the time, so will use models and then they'll take those models and build mock ups from all the. So all the detailed information they have, they'll they'll put that in and in exactly the right place. You know there might be a bit of a Gray area in between two ports. You know they're not quite sure where this bracket is and things like that so. So there are some grey areas in there, but at the moment we're, yeah, we try and get all the detail in and like if we're working in a specific area will try and detail that area as much as we can. You know it, it doesn't matter if there's something over there and something over there and something over there. But you know we're not doing any work in those areas. This is the area we're concentrating on. So that's sort of like where all the detail would come in. Yeah. Otherwise, yeah. If we try to do a complete mock up of everything. Oh yeah, one we probably run out of time making it, trying to get as good as we can. You know, 'cause it. It just takes time, 'cause it's not. Unfortunately, you know you can if you can imagine you know this things. God, I don't know. It's like 4 stories high and it's like 16 meters wide. It's it. Yeah, it's it's quite big scale. Yeah. So it's small. Yeah, it's pretty much fills the whole warehouse. And then we've got another platform that's 5 meters high, which the boom will be going outward. So it's for a start. It's not a ground level. So we're already restricted what we could though. Yeah.
Interviewer: So this study is looking at how people trust their machines. So we're we're defining trust as If your machine behaves how you intend it to or you expect it to, then you can trust it. If it, if it does something that you didn't expect, then you can't really trust it. So with that in mind, do you think you can trust the the robots you're using and do you have any idea why you you have or don't have this trust?
Participant: No. So for me, I I went into it in straight in and was operating for many, many years. But every now and again. The machine would have a, you know, I do. You know what? I don't, but I don't fancy working today, you know, when bearing in mind we all have those off days. So sometimes it would just, you know, shake or rattle, or it would, you know, do something unexpected. So that's like puts you on edge. A little bit, but then for me it was so. In that we have a lot of a diagnostic tools on the on the robots and the manipulators. And they say, Oh well, it done that because of this. So now we've repaired that. Everything is fine. So then I then I gained weight, I gained my basically gain my trust. Again, not with the machine. You know about these are very. Isolated incident incidents, really. And we and our the the technology we were using a it's was very won't say old but it was quite a so I'm mechanical background so it was a lot of mechanical moving parts in there it didn't just rely on the electronics so for me I trusted that a little bit more rather than it being solely just running on computers you know these modern cars and that everything runs on a computer. And stuff like that. And I think do I really want this car to drive itself and do this and do that? I yeah.
Interviewer: How do you think a mechanical versus software background effects how you trust things generally? Is this just for this robot or is there something about having something mechanically designed not to fail?
Participant: Yes. Yes, yes. Yeah. So I've seek mechanical things. You know, there are for me. Uh, 'cause. I'm that sort of, you know, like you can see gears and cogs and you can you go. You know, as long as they're not, you know, made out of cheese or something, you know, that they they, you know, big robust, you think well, you know that this card go wrong. But when they're programmed by something else then that does put you like it just a little bit. It's always there in the back of your mind. But I I yeah, as long as it doesn't throw me across the room and things like that. I. Yeah, I. Yeah, I. Yeah, I I don't really distrust them that much. No, I I'm quite happy to, you know, get on there and give it ago. You know, I'm not one of these words or. No, what if it does this? And what if it does that? You know, a lot of people don't like uh from my engineering background CNC machines, you know which they are like, you know what I'm saying? Yeah, a milling machine, but that is instead of you are like a manual mode. You operate with your hands, you operate it. But it it's literally just sit there and program it. If you tell it to go up that amount, it goes up. That map you tell it to do this and do that. Whereas you know I'm from my background, I've worked with a lot of engineers where Oh no, I couldn't do. See and see it, you know, not letting the computer do its thing. Or no, I have to be in control and stuff like that. You know, there's a there. There are a lot of people out there that are still. Yeah. Very wary. For me personally. No, I I never had a problem with CNCs. I used to operate them on a regular basis and I didn't, you know, in at most of the time, if it was, if I had. And if something went wrong with it. It was my error. It was I I didn't put it information incorrectly or something like that. So I said, well, OK, yeah. Sorry that's my fault. I you know I put the wrong decimal place in or whatever. But yeah, no for me, no, I don't. Uh, I don't find it very.
Interviewer: You don't really have issues with software?
Participant: No, but I do know people that would have. Yeah, I don't know. Why don't why don't know why people don't, you know, 'cause, I'm sure in their everyday life they come across this sort of stuff that's controlled by, you know, computers and everything else. But they don't take a blind bit of notice. Like you. I if I said, oh, OK, then we'll go upstairs and we do wind up in a lift. Surely they were speaking some electronic. Oh no, I'm not going in. The lift will fit. You know. What's the computer goes crazy and I think it oh, if you're gonna live your life like that then why you wouldn't get you wouldn't get on a train or anything I thought yeah.
Interviewer: So going back to when it when it starts shaking and rattling. If something is wrong is that in the software?
Participant: Yeah, it's usually in the software. So we we have an emergency stops. Yeah, we had them all over the place. Yeah. Behind your head by your feet, by your arms. So there was always an emergency stop close by. So. So they those sort of things as well. Putting things in place. To make you feel safe as well. Yeah, you know, worst case scenario, you press a button. That's how long is. That was sort of half a second lesson. I like 10th of a second. Press it. So I think you know we are not. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Uh and our manipulator as well it if, if you really wanted to, we had clutches built into the arm, so if the arm or anything did decide to go off. To be honest, you know, unless you were a have been six stone weakling, you could probably you could. You know you could hold the arm and it would. Obviously the mount was would fight against it and then they had like a trip feature. So if you were, you know, if it was pushing up against something too hard, it used to trip out anyway. So you could physically hold the arm and it at the moment would just trip out and then it would go into safe state anyway. Like a KUKA robot, whereas you know? That thing could, you know, probably smashed through a wall or do some real damage. You know it because you were a because it was explained to you, you know, and I knew the in's and outs of it. 'cause. I used to repair and modify and upgrade this particular manipulator so I knew what was inside it on a new how it worked. So therefore in my head. I knew that it, you know, realistically this thing could have really harm me. But obviously people coming in from the outside and just sitting in the chair and not knowing anything about the machine. Uh, who would probably feel a little bit more apprehensive, should I say. So depending on, you know 'cause of my knowledge that I had so I knew what it was, how it was working and what was going on inside it. 'cause I put them together all the time. I saw that it up here that look, you know, yeah, this thing could really hurt me even if it tried.
Interviewer: Yeah. So going back to this kind of idea of giving the software control and and how much you're comfortable doing that. So I mean the system uses teleoperated commands of the movements. Can you think of any situations where you would like the machine to to take control or you give it control, you say here's a pre programmed task for example go and do it, I trust you. Or to take control to notice when you're doing something that might damage it or a component and the machine notices. And that takes control and and avoids that.
Participant: Yeah. So we did have a a similar, we did have a system where you could have a predefined arm moves with within these [filename] files they were called. So not only could you manipulate the boom into a predetermined position just by you know a a key like pressing a button on the computer. You could also do arm moves as well. So there would be. So if we were taking tiles out, so if if they are meant to be in a certain orientation before you picked it up, you know, it could be manipulate, the arm round, and then the roughly get close to it. And they say, right, OK, then so you your arm needs to be roughly in this orientation. So we did use those. Quite a lot. For predefined arm moves. Uh. Through going through ports. So when we went into vessel, the arms had to be out stretching and the and the arm was on its side going through the port because it was too wide. So we had to rotate it around it. It goes through then rotate background again so we. Predefined all these arm moves. Uh, and we let them in, we let the robot do its thing. You know, obviously, we'd I wouldn't just let go of the arm and stuff like that. You know, we we'd sit there with it and, you know, just to make sure it was. Going in the right position, uh. Pretty much, yeah. Every single time it would do exactly what it was told. The only time we wouldn't do when it was told if someone loaded up a wrong arm position where. I think it's supposed to be going that way, and then the arm starts going off that way. So we did, I'd be emergency stop button or you can pause the arm move. Yeah, again operator error. So it wasn't anything the computer done wrong, is it? Well, I've done exactly what you told me to do. You've just loaded at the wrong file, but a lot of the time, yeah, we would use these preachers predefined moves. Uh on the arms?
Interviewer: I guess looking at the operator error, if you have a situation where you're doing a sequence of tasks that is fairly common.. Would you be happy for the robot in that situation to notice? Like know we've done these these three movements which normally go in order. I was expecting this one and you've ordered me to go over to position X, which doesn't make any sense. So the robot could either, reject your input or even takes the next move in the sequence and say, I know what we're doing. I think you mean this. Would you be happy that or is that too too much?
Participant: Yeah. Cool. Yeah, right. Yeah, it's. Like on a personal, I'd give it. Well, now I don't not happy with that because that's sort of that's my job. I wanted to do that sort of thing. But on. I could see where that could come into play. It would be a a good if it could obviously think that. Dependent on what sort, ask. It was doing a if it was obviously a very not complicated, but you know a tricky manoeuvre that says, you know, like putting something in between a a series of tiles, then perhaps not. If it was like mundane like just picking things up. We used to have a. We had two boom. So you had a a manipulator on one and then basically a tool box. That's all it was. On the other one. So if you came back to the toolbox and said, OK, I need to pick up this bolt runner or that bolt runner, you know, tasks like that, I can see where it could come into play and not. And then I that would be. Yeah, that would be up. Be happy with that. That would be fine. Uh, but actually doing, you know? Doing some intricate like work, maybe not. Yeah.
Interviewer: Yes, it's for example, if you were say you're screwing in a nut. But that it must be a standard ish movement, but it would require some sort of you need. You need to align it. You need to make sure you're not miss threaded, that sort of thing. Would you be happy with a a robot taking charge for that, or is that too far?
Participant: No, I think that's a bit. Yeah. Just picking things up and putting them down. I thinks about my lip at the moment when you're doing up a bolt, but you've got trapped the field. Really. We used to put a thing called a remote handling star on the end of the thread, so it made it very difficult for you to cross thread. So once you started a on a bolt, it would either you know go in nicely and you could feel it going in nicely or it would just jam up straight away. Then you knew it. Well, hold on. Something's wrong here. It you wouldn't sort, like, sit there thinking, oh, you know, moving, you know, going in with a bolt runner and it so is that going in? Is that not going in, you know, it either went in or it didn't. There was a pretty on off switch on there.
Interviewer: All right. It's not like if you're doing it like with your hand and it's like, oh, this is less stiff.
Participant: Yeah, you could think, Oh yeah, yeah. It was getting a little bit stiff over then. You know it don't just go in and it would just jam up pretty much straight away. So these were, but these are all like features we used to incorporate to you know, so we could just make the job a little bit easier. But on the arms, we did have a. We had a feature called Bolt Runner constraints, so if you wanted to do about up, uh, no matter what orientation, you're the. That was outside. The Allen Key was facing you hit a switch on the arm and it would just keep the arm in that orientation or that orientation. You know, you couldn't just move away from the side up and down, left or right. It would just go. So if there's a bolt on the wall, you knew that it would be going in, you know, at that angle. And then you basically just help me out there and just go like that and it would, it would move in, in that access you know so you couldn't start then going in at an angle or or or this way that was a very good feature. That's what we used to use quite a lot just because I think if you are, if you're trying to hold something and turn your wrist at the same time it it's just you know you need to lock something obviously with your arm you haven't really got that you know if you're drilling a hole in something. And you wanna keep it level all the all the time. You really. You know you can't. It's bound to wander a little bit, but yeah.
Interviewer: I guess if you've only got 2 finger gripper, there's only so much adjusting for that you could do. If you're using your hand you can shift your grip slightly if you're finding your offer.
Participant: Yeah. Yeah, you could probably, yeah. Counter counteract it from, you know, from your wrist. But when it's that it's not not as easy. So. So they come up with this idea. This is called a bolt runner constraints. And it was it that used to work very well. Yeah. Provided you had to, you had to get it in line in the first place. But yeah, if you had very good views you, you're fine, yeah.
Interviewer: The application I'm looking at is going to be looking at robots in space and you know operating things that quite far away. So you have a delay between the operator and the the system, and then coming back as well. Do you have any delay in your system? Have you ever opened it, operated anything with delay, or is that just kind of unacceptable? It's all designed out.
Participant: No. Yeah, basically it's all designed out. They don't want any delay whatsoever. If there's like a millisecond of delay, I think sometimes it would trip out, especially if you're well, if you're moving the arms fast. Yeah, it's a constant stream of data backwards and forwards, and if it sees that as you know, a a slight lag in the system, it would flag up and say, well, hold on a minute, you know, because then it would then I think the the software goes would say, Oh well, then it's not quite sure where it is 'cause it, it's it, it thinks it should be copy and the other one. So if it was just slightly, you know slightly out and it was doing that it it it as a yeah, it doesn't like. Yeah, yeah.
Interviewer: Yeah. And if you have a few of those situations, there's suddenly you're really out of sync and it's. It's not working. Yeah, that makes sense. Still on the hunt for someone who who will operate a robot with the latency?
Participant: Yeah. For me, I think if you well. If you could. Narrow down that delay to a you know, a specific. Sort of like time, shall we say? I think you know you over, you know, over a while. I think you'd get used to and, you know, and obviously just moving in small increments. So one thing we used to have it was it was quite good. Uh, we used to run. So we're on the VR simulation system. So we put up pre-programmed, teach files. So there's not only just on the boom on the the the manipulator itself like saying arm move as well. Uh, it would come up. It was used to be called a ghost so that it will be highlighted the position where it was going in green. So you could you know, so you can do things in small steps. So if you weren't sure how far much forward to move or to move to the left or to come up or move your arm over if you told it on the computer and then but you basically just run some software and it's and it would show you where a ghost though, right? So if you tell the move to move from there to there, that's where it's going to end up. You know it's not going to end up further than it is. It's not going to end up that way. It's going to end up there and then it would then you could hit the button and it would then. Move over and then join up with it and then it would disappear. So maybe something like that. You know if you had a some sort of VR or simulation. In the bit you were going to use, you could say, right? OK. You know, you can move it one pre-programmed point at a time
Interviewer: Yeah, and at least get close to come close to the whatever task you're doing, whether that's inserted connector, that, that kind of thing. But yeah, at what point do you- How many tasks would you be happy to use that for? Or is it just a big motions? Is it kind of like the pre planned teach files we talked about earlier? Or is it? Once you get there, I guess you still need the feel at some point, don't you?
Participant: Yeah, yeah. Because we used to use. So the pre programmed ones just say we were up to the start of the vessel, just come in and we wanted to move all the way around the vessel. So there will be a pre programmed move that would literally take us from a all the way around to be. But it would do that in. Several stages. It wouldn't do that in one. Yeah. Admittedly, it would do that in all in one go, but the ghost in which highlight, you know, it would come up, it would go round 20 degrees and say, right. So I'm gonna go there first. Then when you get to there, I'm going to do another 20 degrees and then when you get there, I'm going to do another 20 degrees. You know, you could it would. It would sort like simulate as you went round. It wouldn't just, you could show the end thing or you could show that the bits in between where it was going to it. They're like that. It's like target position it needed to hit that target before it could move on to the next one.
Interviewer: Yeah, that makes sense. And it it breaking it up into chunks, I guess that just makes it easier for whoever is watching to be monitoring it, make sure it's going roughly the right way? Otherwise, yeah, if you've got a long movement that's taken about 30 seconds or a minute, it's pretty hard to know if you're on track or not.
Participant: Yeah, yeah, it was just if it if you hit the button and it says, oh, you're gonna go to there, but well, it's a big distance between there and there. I I wanna know how it's going to get there 'cause that's quite important you know it has to go round things and move before it gets there it can't just go straight to it. Yeah. Yeah.
Interviewer: So the the idea of time delay and time sensitivity when you're doing when you're doing a task. Is there any situation where you have to react to something in the scene and you've got kind of a time sensitive action to take? For example, say you say you drop something and it's rolling away. You have to catch it that that sort of thing. Or is, there there anything in the scene where you need to take a time-dependent action. You can't emergency stop - You have to react immediately as as it's occurring
Participant: Yeah. Well, no. And like I said, everything in there. Because it was so expensive to run a I said right. So every time we're every time when they shut the vessel down and every time we go in May say right this thing the doors get opened. On this day we have to do you have to go in and we have to do this this this, this, this and this and then doors get closed there's no question. So the only time we're strengths on that was was in. Was in the scheduling really not. Although the you know the manipulator would move that quick where you could react to things, we have caught things before you know it. They're in the tool box and you can see something falling over the edge. You know, you could. You could literally go and grab it and stop it from falling over. Yeah, like, you know, and if you see something rolling across on a desk. You you could have stopped it and picked it up. Pretty much most of our instances was drummed into us that one into the design or anything like that. It would be all of that sort of thing would be designed out. So there wasn't many instances where we where we come across those sorts of simulations really 'cause, you know, everything was in a box everything, add edges, you know everything was all over. Uh clamped in or bolted in and things like that. So once you put it down and you screwed it down, it couldn't fall out. It could have moved so. No. So they like to design a lot of this out of everything really. Is there some right we can't drop anything. We can't do this. We can't do that. So you know, we had to make it. It's not foolproof. But yeah, I think the only two instances where we did drop things is when. The whole machine was a basically worked on wire tendons You know one of the tendon snapped. So we had a failure there and it so the gripper opened and whatever we were holding I think luckily at the time we had a. Two hands on it anyway, so one come off. But we were still holding it in the other hand and things like that.
Interviewer: Alright, OK. So the the designing out part of things, I guess what do you do for a snapped tendon?
Participant: You replace them more often that kind of thing? Yeah, maintenance.
Interviewer: What would validate the the amendment to the design so? They design A feature that's going to say this isn't going to happen anymore. How do you kind of sign off that this is? This is definitely true. Do you model things? Is it you mathematically prove it to you? Just run it a million times and and see what happens? Or kind of all of the above today?
Participant: Basically that Yep. So we had a uh uh where the tendon rolls around in the wrist. It was always a failure point. So we said OK, then we'll make the pulley wheel bigger so it's not running around a a smaller diameter. So we ran countless amount of tests on that. We tried different wire as well different we've of wire. So we didn't just use our standard why we used it was the same. Uh, I think it's the same diameter wire, but it had a different the way the structure was set up in there at a different wave on it, and that proved to be to work better as well. So it was just going back looking at him. We had design reviews and tests long term testing and that that sort of thing.
Interviewer: Brilliant. So I've got a list of what we're calling non functional features that may or may not. make you trust your system, or they might do the opposite, make you trust your system less. These are something that's it doesn't affect how the how the system operates. It's not. You don't need it for the system to work, but you kind of need it to for the user to know that it's working if that makes any sense. For example a on your phone you have a camera. And it will either do like the little image shake to know that you're taking a picture or make a shutter noise that that doesn't happen on a there's no actual shutter moving, they've just added that to make the user comfortable, but it's working so. And basically we're just looking to see if there's any of these that will that kind of jump out to you as good or not.
Participant: For the fixed to the fixed camera or variable viewpoint. So yeah, so where you had course was that we had numerous cameras for me. As a as an operator, camera views were key. Yeah. If we had very. But we did have grainy cameras to start with, but then they invested a, we invested heavily in high definition cameras and that made such a difference. Yeah. The resolution was, yeah, it was really good.
Interviewer: Did you ever get to a point where you have or? I guess two many or or you focus on your only really looking at two or three cameras. If you've got right.
Participant: Yeah, we add. Oh, only we got here. We think there was a Bank of eight in the end, but admittedly, at any one time. Uh. You were using your two main ones. So yeah, you saw clocks for you and your camera on view, and then you had two on the wrists. We had wrist cameras. Uh. And then we had four uh external cameras that you could view from the front of the boom. The back of the boom all over the place. So yeah, there was there did come a time where everything was looking at one thing and and it did get a little bit, you know, you're you're staring at something from, you know, from 10 degrees across 20 degrees across. And I think, yeah, it got a bit too confusing for me. And, you know, you have a couple of. Decent views overviews 'cause you always need to know where your arms and everything are, so yeah, just to make sure that no one's. You know, always viewing, you know, right at the point at what you're doing. You know, you still need to have an overview and make sure your surroundings. Basically, yeah, spatial awareness. But that is, well, that would be down to the operator as in the the camera operator, 'cause, uh. On one on our system it it was, you know, you operated the manipulator. So if you want a different views and things like that then that was down to the boom operator. Then to get you a better view and when you start working with people you know they know what views you want. Uh, and stuff and you get up. You know, for all [my colleague] likes to do it like, you know, have it set up like this. So we have an overview and they have one zoomed in and then one maybe halfway or one come from this side. Uh, so you sort of like get to roughly know what people like and what they don't like when you're on a shift for, you know, 12 hours a day, seven days a week, it you sort of like get to know what they want. Yeah. Yeah. So you once you start moving your arm and and the camera usually would pan and follow you in with it 'cause you knew that that that's how you liked it. But you know that's you know. And so other people didn't like it like that, they wanted it all zoomed out and stuff like that and they just use your wrist cameras or whatever. So yeah, so it'll it.
Interviewer: Alright, so it's really it's really personal preference?
Participant: Yeah, it's a personal preference operator thing, I think, yeah.
Interviewer: Like yes, so I guess you kind of you have to give the options if you can have lots of operators if you're just building it for one or two people, then you can tailor it? Otherwise you kind of need the options. UM, thinking again about resolution. UM, so kind of data bandwidth is a bit of a restriction when when you're in space, if you're going to take resolution or frame rate, which would you prefer?
Participant: It probably has to be the frame rate then, wouldn't it? The resolution, as long as you can see, you know, a rough idea, but you want that. You want that refreshed quite a lot, don't you really to make sure that it's the same thing over and over again? So we did have a thing where for a lot of people. So we went from small screens. So obviously the smaller your screen is, you could get a a better resolution in a smaller screen. So we went, went due to the HD cameras, they went up on massive screens, but it didn't seem to make any, you know, they were people were saying, well, it's still quite grainy because, you know, you've got a HD picture, but on a huge screen. So it would it's sort of so then we sort right, OK let's bring the screen sizes down a bit. So we've got a nice good quality picture that that we can that we can see. So sometimes, yeah, yeah, you can. You can make a good quality image, but maybe just on a smaller screen.
Interviewer: Yeah, maybe that's an advantage, but I I guess I mean how many people have you got working on the same system at once? How many, how big do you need the screens to be? How close? How close are these? It's not like a projector on a on a wall, is it? Yeah.
Participant: We did have a huge projector and then and the hopes were so expensive we said, right, we're gonna get the biggest TV we could bear in mind. This was quite some years ago. I think he bought a 75 inch TV which was, you know with the picture click on it was yeah, it was really good. Yeah, there are. Well, there's 4, there's there. There was five of us on shift at any one time. So we could all look view the same images.
Interviewer: Yeah, that's, that's where things. So looking through the rest of the list, I mean, we kind of talked about the the Ghost mode and sort of.
Participant: Yeah, that, that, that was handy. Yeah, that was a good idea that come in handy. Yeah. Always important to know where the, you know, where the machine is going or where you think it's going 'cause. You know, there were incidents where, you know, you'd you'd hit. It's not like it's not like it was like a pre start button. So then this ghost would come up, you know. And it might be. Well, hold on a minute. Where where's where's that going? This sticking out sideways and you think no, hold on a minute. Hold on a minute. I've done something wrong here. Yeah. So, you know, so luckily people didn't. You know, hit the button and say, right? OK, let's go off in that direction through solid walls and things, yeah.
Interviewer: Have you ever come across these sort of no go zones ideas either? I mean it, it might work with uh, the VR headsets, but you're you're looking at, you're seeing, and you'll either have an overlay of, you know, a path you need to follow or an area kind of colored in saying don't go over here, but even even coming into if you start moving that that that direction, you're you might hear a sound like, an alarm saying you're getting close or an absolute the force feedback kicks in and says you literally can't go over there. Uhm, would that be useful for you? Is that kind of too much extra?
Participant: Yeah. Yeah. No. Well, and we have actually got a a built in feature on. This a manipulator we got. That does actually do that, so you can preprogram walls. So if you've got a specific area, say that you are working in, it was programmed for. We had some clients that wanted to work as to work in a glove box. And I said, right, OK, we want you to pick up and operate and use this part, this part and this part. But you can't go over here. You can't go over here and you can't go up here 'cause, there are delicate, you know, sensitive monitoring equipment or whether it was they said you just can't go into those areas. Is there a way that you can just literally put you put the arms in these Aaron work in these areas? So if you move your arm out of that? Getting this exactly what it done it you can build boundaries and walls. You can also build like spheres around something. So just say they were saying right OK then we want you to pick up that test tube that, that and that. But there's going to be that that's in the middle and we don't want you to touch that. You are? Yeah. Like if your hand was in front of it and you would sort of like, wanted nudge away. Yeah. So you've got OK then. So you couldn't physically get into that. So. So yeah, there are.
Interviewer: Yeah. So would you prefer that kind of that force feedback to to just, I don't know seeing a sphere? A red sphere around where you where you're heading towards you. You kind of want that, that physical interaction.
Participant: Yeah, I think if you just had a lock, an image on the screen. Uh, I don't know. Uh, maybe if it was a repetitive thing after a while, you might, yeah. Might want to take a shortcut through that area or whatever. So I don't know. But yeah, we did have a on the gripper as well. A lot of people used to really grip things too hard. So we we have a we have a buzzer on there, so to say, look, you look, you've gripped it, you're over gripping it now you're just it it it it's not you're not gripping it anymore, you've gripped it with too much force. That it can do stop squeezing the gripper 'cause. That was another reason why as well. Like every time you really squeeze the gripper, it would put more tension on the cables. So well, we had more failures. So we just put an audible alarm on there to to say look, you've gripped it, that's it, that's all you need to do. You don't need to do anymore.
Interviewer: Yeah, that's perfect. And so just checking through the rest of the list, every have you tried? VR or AR headsets?
Participant: Yeah, they experimented with VR a little bit. And yeah, I think it was. People were getting motion sickness. They kept falling off their chairs and stuff it out a little bit. Uh, not comedic, but yeah. But we have got, which is interesting. We've got, oh, up. And then if you ever heard of a HoloLens. We've got a Microsoft HoloLens, so. Basically, at the time that we were experimenting with the obviously the VR. We just had full on, you know you put VR goggles on and that was it. But this one and sort of, yeah, it it's so it's got glasses, isn't it? So you can actually see through what it is. You know. You know I can stand here and I can see that chair. I can see that monitor so you're not so you're still aware of the thing around you So what we use it for as well is a we use it for exploding models So what I've opponent. Uh in in like SolidWorks or something like that. And then if we wanna manipulate it, we can use our hand gestures to manipulate that and explode it and see which bearing goes round this way or which seal needs to go in or which bolts need to go in first. So we bought a couple of those would mainly because uh machine went abroad. So we wanted us as you know like maintenance team. To be able to help them maintain this, you know why? Just not enough like a video conference. You, we we could have, you know, they could have the VR headset on and we could send them images and all sorts so they can stand there and look at the object. And also we could draw on things our end and it comes up on their screen. So I say right now you need to undo or turn that anticlockwise and then we draw around things to say right. It's that part there. So you can take pictures with it I think. Technology has come a long way now. Uh. Uh since before, so I think there are products out there that would that are not tailored to it, but they would work. I think a little bit more. So we work a lot better now than what they then I just uh, for full on virtual headset where you're enclosed in this, you know, your own little world. Yeah, I think you know, when VR come out. It was all there. Let's get a VR. Yeah. Yeah. But I think, you know, it's like when 3D TV's come out. Yeah, well, we've got three. DTV, we did experiment with 3D as well. Yeah, we had a little spate of 3D, but then obviously how well HD come along and things that where the picture quality was was so good. It was, uh, it was almost like having a a 3D image anyway.
Interviewer: You can understand the depth enough from from that resolution?
Participant: Yeah, you can understand. You know 'cause the picture quality. Yeah, the resolution was that was a lot better. So it's sort of like toyed with the idea of putting. Uh, a 3D camera on there as well. And then they said, oh, we're just going to go with the HD. Everyone, you know, quite likes the the HD 'cause at the top where it was like the the flicker in one. So you had to wear the, the, the flickery shutter glasses like 8 hours a day Yeah. No, I don't think it was worth their, you know, you could get just as good a result. So you should lose shadows a lot. Uh in the vessel because it was a completely enclosed machine. We had lights all the way around the vessel. So obviously when we went over it would it would cast shadows. So I used the shadows quite a lot to gain my depth perception and things like that use the environment around. Decide to saying up? Well, I know I'm miles away from it because I know there's a light up there and there's a shadow there and there's no shadow and it's not until I bring my arm down. But you could see a shower and you could see that shadow where it was intending to be, especially on bolt holes I found. At the end of the bolt runner and you bring it down. You can see the shadow over the bolt hole and you just go and then straight in and do the poll app.
Interviewer: That's a yeah, that's a really interesting one, actually. That's the kind of thing you could. I did not. I can't think where it would, where it really fit, but you could almost. Put a a shadow. Well, like a light and shadow on the end of a end effector to judge. Judge how far away you are, and it's quite nice. Easy, low tech way of doing it.
Participant: Yes, we have a camera with a light on. Yeah. Yeah, you could. Yeah. Yeah, 'cause, you could do that in on one camera in a 2D view, but get a locker more or less a a 3D spatial image rather than using the two cameras, one from the top and one from below. So if that camera wasn't working for you, know whatever reason or wasn't available. Yeah. You know, you could still use that shadow. So the light. So. So we used to have high powered LEDs around both lights. Yeah. So I've found that very useful.
Interviewer: Yeah. No, that's quite good. One, have you come across, I mean, so we've gone through most of the things I could think of. Is there anything else sort of similar to shadows or 3D cameras that you've come across whilst was using various robots and you're like, yeah, this is this should be used more or this should be avoided
Participant: No. He looks at the the, the, the, the bolt runner, constraints and things like that was very uh, was very useful, like used to get used quite a lot. Uh, and our what we were doing. I don't want to work but.
Interviewer: Just reducing your degrees of freedom for a unknown task, making it easier.
Participant: Yeah. Or also we had a. We did have as well As for for length of use. Uh. Some of the tiles and some of the things we had to put into vessell were were very heavy. So you could do the force ratios on the arms. So yeah, so if I if I wanted to pick up a 5K weight and I had to hold that for any amount of time or manipulate, it puts quite a lot of strain on your hands, especially if uh handling tool. So the wait was over here and you were picking at it, you could only pick it up over here. So obviously you can imagine the momentum it's quite. Yeah. But so we had a several force ratio buttons, so it would. Basically, take that wait for you. Yeah, you could. You could pick things up and it instead of in weighing 5 kilos, it would weigh 1K. Therefore, it's much more easier to handle. Unfortunately, the more force ratio you put on the less sensitive the arm became. So if you had to so the armed force ratio right down on one to 1.5 it, you could, you know it was exactly it was pretty much like 1 to one. Ratio of if that thing was 5 kilos then you'd be picking up five kilos, but it was really sensitive. You know. You could. We used to have a a a test. So if you put it on to 1 to 1.5 would pick up an Allen key or a bolt runner and it would. We'd stick some duck tape. Onto the onto a table. You know in in duct tape you have the reinforcing ribs. So we put the the bolt runner on top of there and like if it says to say, to simulate your fingernail, so if you run your fingernail across there, you could feel the ribs in the tape. So there's one that's how sensitive it was. Yeah. You could feel if you run your finger across it, you know, you could feel it rubbing and you could do the. Yeah, feel it. So you could, you'd get that force feedback through there. So it was actually like running your nail on there, but it. But then if you put that up on, say, 1 to 9, I think the highest was. Uh, you know, you could run that up and down all day and you can be banging into things and you wouldn't really feel them necessarily. No. So it had its so be nice if you could. Yeah, it would be nice if you could, you know have that force ratio up and still have the sensitivity. I'm not quite sure you do that, but that's for the software guys, but yeah. That's the Holy Grail. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, that would be good. Yeah. Yeah. You could pick up something massively heavy, but also manipulate it really nice and gently and carefully.